Update Splicing project page (#621)
OpenSats/website: data/projects/splicing.mdx

---
title: 'Splicing'
dateAdded: '2023-03-10'
summary: 'Resize Lightning channels without closing them.'
nym: 'Dusty Daemon'
website: 'https://lightningsplice.com/'
donationLink: 'https://njump.to/npub1fuk7q4y0wzqw7vjrg7xeuuva79pg7ctg69a53zsxq6gepksufrrst9mzly'
coverImage: '/static/images/projects/splicing.jpg'
git: 'https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1160'
twitter: 'dusty_daemon'
personalTwitter: 'dusty_daemon'
nostr: 'npub1fuk7q4y0wzqw7vjrg7xeuuva79pg7ctg69a53zsxq6gepksufrrst9mzly'
tags: ['Lightning', 'Protocol']
showcase: true
fund: general
announcementLink: '/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2023#splicing'
---

Splicing is a Lightning protocol improvement that lets users resize channels without closing them and opening new ones. Instead of tearing down an existing channel to add or remove liquidity, a splice updates the channel's funding transaction in place.

> The increased liquidity flows improve all aspects of Lightning including payment speed, payment fees, and payment reliability.
>
> <cite>— [Dusty Daemon](/blog/advancements-in-lightning-infrastructure#splicing)</cite>

> Splicing gives users a cleaner way to add or remove liquidity. It also helps node operators manage capital more efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splicing gives users a cleaner way to add or remove liquidity, helping node operators manage capital more efficiently.
```

## Why fund it?

Splicing has been discussed for years, but turning a specification into production-ready code takes focused engineering. It touches protocol design, transaction construction, edge-case handling, interoperability, and developer education across multiple Lightning implementations.

OpenSats began supporting Splicing in July 2023 through a [Bitcoin grant](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2023#splicing) to Dusty Daemon, who has been driving both the specification and the first implementation work. That support later expanded into [long-term support](/blog/dusty-daemon-receives-lts-grant) as the project matured.

## What's next?

> Recent work has moved Splicing closer to broader deployment. In the [lightning infrastructure impact report](/blog/advancements-in-lightning-infrastructure#splicing), Dusty describes progress on a full implementation in Core Lightning, work on Splice Script for more expressive transaction flows, and parallel efforts to bring Splicing into LDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official merging of the splicing specifications in the [BOLTs repository](https://github.com/lightning/bolts),  has moved this tool closer to broader deployment.
In the [lightning infrastructure impact report](/blog/advancements-in-lightning-infrastructure#splicing), Dusty describes progress on a full implementation in Core Lightning, work on Splice Script for more expressive transaction flows, and parallel efforts to bring Splicing into LDK.
```

> Dusty's latest reports show that the work has shifted from ratifying the spec to shipping usable tools. The splicing spec is now ratified, Core Lightning and Eclair have gone through final interoperability work, and Splice Script now supports multi-channel splices plus simpler `splicein` and `spliceout` flows.

Reviewer: Do we have a link to Splice Script?

Author: Added.
